# SmartBabyMonitor
In today's fast paced world,the prevalence of technology has made it difficult for people to find time outside of their work obligations, resulting in a busy and demanding lifestyle. It is difficult for working parents to babysit simultaneously. They tend to leave their child with babysitters to take care of their child and yet they are not satisfied with the same. This project deals with the health and security of the infant, using various sensors to monitor the actions of the baby. This information will be sent to the parent through the mobile application.
This is a baby monitoring system having inbuilt features to monitor the baby continuously whilst providing additional information on fever, and any other abnormalities to the parents. Additionally, the live data about the child will be sent to the parent via a mobile application, where the parents can keep an eye on the baby and monitor its activities on a daily basis. 
A sound sensor will be attached to cradle in such a way that it will take input sound of baby only, and it will conclude the activity to be performed as per the range of sound in decibels, if the sound is more than certain amount then system will automatically start playing the recording of the mother. If the baby is still crying then alert will be sent to the parents/caretakers. Motion sensor that is PIR (Passive Infrared) sensor will detect the motion which is used for security purpose and in point of view of any danger, if there is too much motion detected, then an alert will send to the parents. Wet sensor is used to check if the mattress is wet. If any kind of wetness is detected it will send the alert message to the parents. There will be two temperature sensors used here which are DHT11 and LM35, DHT 11 that will check the temperature of the whole room and LM35 sensor will measure the temperature of the baby, and it will alert the parent if there is a huge change. This project will decrease the difficulty of these hurdles, and release the stress of the parent and most importantly the baby will be safe, healthier and will sleep without any discomfort.
